(#241) Initial commit of ccm roles page (#405)
chocolatey/docs: input/en-us/central-management/usage/website/roles.md

---
Order: 80
xref: ccm-roles

> Title: Roles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: Chocolatey Central Management Roles
```

Author: @pauby I'm not a fan of this change as all the other website pages aren't labeled with Chocolatey Central Management. Feel this is the one place where short is good since having longer names in the left hand docs nav clutters things. Plus all of these pages are under the Chocolatey Central Management umbrella in the nav.

Picture of nav with this change in effect:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/57045117/168166881-f88a0e35-ed84-49e8-9e2a-7a0bc34e7eb4.png)

Reviewer 2: Agreed. TO remain consistent, we should leave this as `Roles`, at least for now, as there would need to be many other changes to make this done everywhere.

Description: Information on Roles within Chocolatey Central Management.
---

Chocolatey Central Management's roles are the basis for setting collections of permissions that can be assigned to specific users within Chocolatey Central Management.

Roles can be accessed by going to Administration on the left-hand navigation and selecting roles.

![Roles menu entry on the CCM Dashboard](/assets/images/ccm/roles/ccm-roles-menu.png)

## Creating a Role

On the main roles page, select the **+ Create New Role** button.

![Create New Role button on the Roles page](/assets/images/ccm/roles/ccm-roles-new.png)

> You will then be presented with the Role properties window where you can enter the name for the new rule. You also have the option to make your new role the Default which will be added to all new users by defualt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will then be presented with the Role properties window where you can enter the name for the new role. You also have the option to make your new role the Default which will be added to all new users by default.
```

![Creating New Role Setting Role Properties](/assets/images/ccm/roles/ccm-roles-set-properties.png)

Next you'll want to click over to Permissions. This window will allow you to select what specific permissions you wish to give your new role.

![Creating New Role Setting Permissions](/assets/images/ccm/roles/ccm-roles-set-permissions.png)

Click :floppy_disk: **Save** to close the window and create the new role.

## Editing a Role

> :memo: **NOTE**
>

> > If you do not see the **Edit** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, please see your administrator to determine if your account has the _Edit Roles_ permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you do not see the **Edit** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, please see your Administrator to determine if your account has the _Edit Roles_ permission.
```

> > If you do not see the **Edit** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, consult your administrator to determine if your Central Management account has _Edit Roles_ permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you do not see the **Edit** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, please see your Administrator to determine if your account has the _Edit Roles_ permission.
```

On the main Roles page, find the role you want to edit.

> You can also use the _Select Permissions (0)_ modal to filter the roles listed based on them having the permissions you select within the modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use _Select Permissions (0)_ to filter the Roles based on the permissions you select.
```

> Select the :gear: **Actions** button on the left-hand side of the role, and then select **Edit** to open the _Edit Group_ modal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the :gear: **Actions** button on the left-hand side of the role, and then select **Edit** to open the _Edit Group_ window.
```

![Edit menu entry in role actions flyout menu](/assets/images/ccm/roles/ccm-roles-edit.png)

> From the **Edit Role** window, you can modify the name, set it to be the Defualt role, and edit its permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the **Edit Role** window, you can modify the name, set it to be the Default role, and edit its permissions.
```

> From the **Edit Role** modal, you can modify the role name, optinally set ti to be the defualt role, an edit its permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the **Edit Role** window, you can modify the name, set it to be the Default role and edit its permissions.
```

## Deleting a Role

> :memo: **NOTE**
>

> > If you do not see the **Delete** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, please see your Administrator to determine if you have the appropriate permissions assigned to your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you do not see the **Delete** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, please see your Administrator to determine if your account has the _Edit Roles_ permissions.
```

Reviewer: Changed this here to make it consistent with the one above.

> > If you do not see the **Delete** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, consult your administrator to determine if you have the appropriate permissions assigned to your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you do not see the **Delete** menu entry or the :gear: **Actions** buttons, please see your Administrator to determine if you have the appropriate permissions assigned to your account.
```

>

> > If a role is listed as **Static** next to its name. It cannot be deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Roles labelled **Static** cannot be deleted.
```

>

> > You cannot delete a role while being logged into Central Management as a user assigned to the role you are trying to delete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You cannot delete a Role if the account you are using also has the  Role assigned to it.
```

On the main Roles page, find the role you want to delete. You can also use _Select Permissions (0)_ to filter the roles listed based on permission. Similar to the [Edit Role](#editing-a-role) action, select the :gear: **Actions** button on the left-hand side of the role, and select **Delete**. You will be prompted to confirm the deletion.

## Pre-Configured Roles

> When first browsing to the Roles page, you'll be presented with 5 pre-configured roles that are built-in to Central Management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When first browsing to the Roles page, you'll be presented with 5 pre-configured roles that are built-in to Chocolatey Central Management.
```

> On the main Roles page, find the role you want to delete. You can also use the _Select Permissions (0)_ modal to filter the roles listed based on them having the permissions you select within the modal. Similar to the [Edit Role](#editing-a-role) action, select the :gear: **Actions** button on the left-hand side of the role, and  select **Delete**. You will be prompted to confirm the deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the main Roles page, find the role you want to delete. You can also use _Select Permissions (0)_ to filter the roles listed based on permission. Similar to the [Edit Role](#editing-a-role) action, select the :gear: **Actions** button on the left-hand side of the role, and  select **Delete**. You will be prompted to confirm the deletion.
```

> When first browsing to the roles page you'll be presented with 5 pre-configured roles that come with Central Management out of box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When first browsing the Roles page, you'll be presented with 5 pre-configured roles that are built-in to Chocolatey Central Management.
```

![Pre-configured roles in CCM Dashboard](/assets/images/ccm/roles/ccm-roles-preconfiguredroles.png)

> These pre-configured roles are labeled as static and cannot be deleted. They can however be edited by name, default role selection, and permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These pre-configured roles are labeled as **Static** and cannot be deleted. They can however be edited by name, default role selection, and permissions.
```

> We recommend you review the permissions these roles have. Then edit them, if needed, to work within your enviornment for the different user access levels you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you review the permissions these roles have. Then edit them, if needed, to work within your environment.
```

## Related Topics

* [Chocolatey Central Management](xref:central-management)

> * [Central Management - Deployments](xref:ccm-deployments)
> * [Central Management - Reports](xref:ccm-reports)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Chocolatey Central Management - Deployments](xref:ccm-deployments)
* [Chocolatey Central Management - Reports](xref:ccm-reports)
```
